.. _release-notes_0.1:

***********
Version 0.1
***********

.. warning::
    We recommend to update from this version of Magnopy.

    We do not recommend to use ``magnopy.Energy.optimize()`` or ``magnopy-optimize-sd`` of
    this version of Magnopy.


0.1.9
=====

**Date**: 30 June 2025

Bugfix
------

- Fix :issue:`38`.



0.1.8
=====

.. warning::
    We recommend not to use energy optimization of this version.

**Date**: 26 June 2025

New features
------------

* Add ``full_ham()`` example.
* Add date and time to the output of CLI scripts.
* Add primitive plotter for spin directions to both CLI scripts.
* Add new script with primitive plotter for the spin directions.

Bugfix
------

* Fix bugs
* Fix a bug of reading spin directions from a file.
* Fix a bug in Energy with 43 parameters.

0.1.7
=====

.. warning::
    We recommend not to use energy optimization of this version.

**Date**: 12 June 2025

New features
------------

*   Add parameter converters for ``22`` (``converter22``) and ``422`` (``converter422``)
    terms.
*   Add ``alphas`` parameter to the ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.add_magnetic_field``.
*   Implement multiplication of the Hamiltonian by a number.
*   Implement reading of the new public file format of |GROGU|_.
*   Implement summation (and subtraction) of spin Hamiltonians.
*   Implement submodule with examples.
*   Implement energy minimization algorithm.
*   Implement creation of the supercell (warning: not tested)
*   Implement ``__call__`` (equivalent to ``Energy.E_0``) for ``Energy`` class.

Bugfix
------

*   Fix bugs.

Improvements
------------
*   Make use of LSWT scenario within Python more convenient.
*   Add spin direction's optimization step to the LSWT scenario.
*   Implement new scenario and command line interface for energy optimization.

0.1.6
=====

.. warning::
    We recommend not to use this version with GROGU files.

**Date**: 16 May 2025

New features
------------

*   Add reading of magnetic moment from TB2J when no-SOC case is used.

Bugfix
------

*   Fix a typo in ``load_tb2j()``
*   Fix a bug with reading of TB2J (when no anisotropy is present)

Improvements
------------

*   Rename ``-s/--spins`` to ``-sv/--spin-values`` in ``magnopy-lswt``.

0.1.5
=====

.. warning::
    We recommend not to use this version.

**Date**: 26 May 2025

Bugfix
------

*   Fix :issue:`23`.

Improvements
------------

*   Rename output file for vampire from "input" to "input-template" to avoid frustrating
    overwrites.

0.1.4
=====

.. warning::
    We recommend not to use this version.

**Date**: 23 May 2025

Bugfix
------

*   Fix a bug in the TB2J reader: atom's positions have been read as absolute instead of
    relative.

*   Fix various bugs in the vampire output.

0.1.3
=====

.. warning::
    We recommend not to use this version.

**Date**: 22 May 2025

New features
------------

*   Add ax.set_xlabel() for the plot with the custom list of kpoints.

Improvements
------------

*   Start to use the term "convention" instead of "notation" both in documentation and
    in the code.

*   Change development status from "planning" to "beta" in pyproject.toml

*   Remove total energy from the output. It was not meaningful, as it was summed
    along the high symmetry path and not across the Brillouin zone.

0.1.2
=====

.. warning::
    We recommend not to use this version.

**Date**: 20 May 2025

Improvements
------------
Change colors in the plots.

0.1.1
=====

.. warning::
    We recommend not to use this version.

**Date**: 20 May 2025

Bugfix
------

*   Fix a bug with the energy units. In the output "eV" was written instead of "meV".
    Now it is written "meV". The values were always outputted in meV.

*   Replace GROGU interface for the temporary simpler one.

0.1.0
=====

**Date**: 19 May 2025

First release of Magnopy.
