.. _release-notes_0.4:

***********
Version 0.4
***********

0.4.3
=====

**Date**: 9 January 2026

Improvements
------------

* Make LSWT diagonalization more numerically stable. This should fix rare cases of
  non-continues magnon spectra.
* Improve speed of the LSWT diagonalization (up to the factor x2).

0.4.2
=====

**Date**: 21 November 2025

Bugfix
------

* Fix a rare bug with p21 parameter in the dispersion calculation.
* Fix :issue:`79`: Incorrect sorting of the eigenvectors in edge cases, introduced in 0.2.

Improvements
------------

* Improve text of warnings of the :ref:`user-guide_cli_lswt` script.


0.4.1
=====

.. warning::

    We recommend not to use this version of Magnopy due to :issue:`79`, that can affect
    some (not all) calculations of spin wave spectra. Use 0.4.2 and later instead.

**Date**: 3 November 2025

Bugfix
------

* Fix :issue:`80`: a bug in :ref:`user-guide_cli_lswt` when using ``--k-points`` argument.


0.4.0
=====

**Date**: 23 October 2025

.. warning::

    We do not recommend to use :ref:`user-guide_cli_lswt` script with ``--k-points`` argument
    of this version. There is a bug that was fixed in 0.4.1.

New features
------------

* Together with this release we release a master tutorial about Magnopy:
  |magnopy-tutorials|_.
* Add summary of the executed commands to the output of both :ref:`user-guide_cli_lswt` and
  :ref:`user-guide_cli_optimize-sd`.
* Add output of magnetic field to :ref:`user-guide_cli_optimize-sd`.
* Add "E_0.txt" output file to :ref:`user-guide_cli_optimize-sd`.
* Add "E_0.txt", "E_2.txt" and "ONE_OPERATOR_TERMS.txt" output file to
  :ref:`user-guide_cli_optimize-sd`.
* Add parameter ``B`` in :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_magnetic_field`.
* Implement :issue:`72`: ``.Convention.__str__()`` and
  ``.Convention.__repr__()``.
* Implement ``.Convention.__hash__()``.
* Implement ``when_present`` argument in  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_1`,
  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_21`, :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_22`,
  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_31`, :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_32`,
  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_33`, :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_41`,
  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_421`, :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_422`,
  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_43`, :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_44`.
* Implement ``spin_values`` in :py:func:`.io.load_grogu`, same as in :py:func:`.io.load_tb2j`.
* Implement :issue:`75`: ``--spglib-types`` in :ref:`user-guide_cli_lswt`.
* Implement :py:func:`.io.plot_dispersion`.
* Support ``--spin-values`` for the |GROGU|_ as well in :ref:`user-guide_cli_optimize-sd` and
  :ref:`user-guide_cli_lswt`.


Bugfix
------

* Fix :issue:`74`: a bug in :ref:`user-guide_cli_lswt`, when it is used with
  ``--k-points`` argument.
* Fix a bug in :py:func:`.examples.ivuzjo`.

Improvements
------------

* Overall improvement of the console output for both :ref:`user-guide_cli_lswt` and
  :ref:`user-guide_cli_optimize-sd`.
* Extend hover information in :py:func:`.experimental.plot_spinham`.


Breaking changes wrt 0.3
========================

Deprecated features
-------------------

* :py:func:`.Convention.summary` use ``print(convention)`` or ``str(convention)`` instead.
* ``replace`` argument in :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_1`,
  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_21`, :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_22`,
  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_31`, :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_32`,
  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_33`, :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_41`,
  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_421`, :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_422`,
  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_43`, :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_44`.
  Use ``when_present="replace"`` instead.
* ``h`` in :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_magnetic_field` in favor of ``B``.
* :py:func:`.experimental.plot_dispersion` use :py:func:`.io.plot_dispersion` instead.
