.. _release-notes_0.5:

***********
Version 0.5
***********

Breaking changes and transition guide
=====================================

Version 0.5.0 introduce some breaking changes in the magnopy's API. Those changes were
unavoidable, as we needed to fix more-than-three-spins terms of the Hamiltonian and
introduce full and correct
:ref:`form of the spin Hamiltonian <user-guide_theory-behind_spin-hamiltonian>`.

This page is aimed to ease the transition to the 0.5.0 for the users of the previous
versions. As always, if you have questions of how to modify your existing scripts, please
contact us via :ref:`support`.


Adding parameters to the Hamiltonian
------------------------------------

.. list-table::
    :stub-columns: 1

    * - Prior to 0.5.0
      - .. code-block:: python

            spinham.add_1(alpha=0, parameter = [0,0,1])

    * - 0.5.0 and later
      - .. code-block:: python

            spinham.add(nus=(), alphas=(0,), parameter=[0,0,1])



.. list-table::
    :stub-columns: 1

    * - Prior to 0.5.0
      - .. code-block:: python

            spinham.add_21(alpha=0, parameter = np.eye(3))

    * - 0.5.0 and later
      - .. code-block:: python

            spinham.add(nus=((1, 0, 0),), alphas=(0, 0), parameter=np.eye(3))




.. list-table::
    :stub-columns: 1

    * - Prior to 0.5.0
      - .. code-block:: python

            spinham.add_22(alpha=0, beta=1, nu=(1, 0, 0),m parameter = np.eye(3))

    * - 0.5.0 and later
      - .. code-block:: python

            spinham.add(nus=((1, 0, 0),), alphas=(0, 1), parameter=np.eye(3))


Removing parameter from the Hamiltonian
---------------------------------------


.. list-table::
    :stub-columns: 1

    * - Prior to 0.5.0
      - .. code-block:: python

            spinham.remove_1(alpha=0)

    * - 0.5.0 and later
      - .. code-block:: python

            spinham.remove(nus=(), alphas=(0,))

.. list-table::
    :stub-columns: 1

    * - Prior to 0.5.0
      - .. code-block:: python

            spinham.remove_21(alpha=0)

    * - 0.5.0 and later
      - .. code-block:: python

            spinham.remove(nus=((1, 0, 0),), alphas=(0, 0))

.. list-table::
    :stub-columns: 1

    * - Prior to 0.5.0
      - .. code-block:: python

            spinham.remove_22(alpha=0, beta=1, nu=(1, 0, 0))

    * - 0.5.0 and later
      - .. code-block:: python

            spinham.remove(nus=((1, 0, 0),), alphas=(0, 1))


Iterating over parameters of the Hamiltonian
--------------------------------------------


.. list-table::
    :stub-columns: 1

    * - Prior to 0.5.0
      - .. code-block:: python

            for alpha, parameter in spinham.p1:
                print(spinham.atoms.names[alpha], parameter)

    * - 0.5.0 and later
      - .. code-block:: python

            for nus, alphas, parameters in spinham.p1:
                alpha = alphas[0]
                print(spinham.atoms.names[alpha], parameter)


.. list-table::
    :stub-columns: 1

    * - Prior to 0.5.0
      - .. code-block:: python

            for alpha, parameter in spinham.p21:
                print(spinham.atoms.names[alpha], parameter)

    * - 0.5.0 and later
      - .. code-block:: python

            for nus, alphas, parameters in spinham.p21:
                alpha = alphas[0]
                print(spinham.atoms.names[alpha], parameter)


.. list-table::
    :stub-columns: 1

    * - Prior to 0.5.0
      - .. code-block:: python

            for alpha, beta, nu, parameter in spinham.p22:
                print(spinham.atoms.names[alpha], spinham.atoms.names[beta], nu)
                print(parameter)

    * - 0.5.0 and later
      - .. code-block:: python

            for nus, alphas, parameters in spinham.p22:
                alpha = alphas[0]
                beta = alphas[1]
                nu = nus[0]
                print(spinham.atoms.names[alpha], spinham.atoms.names[beta], nu)
                print(parameter)


0.5.3
=====

**Date**: 25 May 2026

New features
------------

* Update :py:func:`magnopy.io.load_grogu` can read the Hamiltonian's convention from the
  file instead of assuming the default GROGU's one.

Bugfix
------

* Fix a bug in :py:meth:`magnopy.SpinHamiltonian._get_missing_parameters`, that prevented
  the method from working, when there are indeed missing parameters.
* Fix a bug in :py:meth:`magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.purge`. The bug prevented modification of
  the Hamiltonian parameters if this method was used.



0.5.2
=====

**Date**: 14 April 2026

New features
------------

* :py:attr:`magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.M_prime`.
* :py:func:`magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.set_magnetic_field`.
* :py:attr:`magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.magnetic_field`.
* :py:attr:`magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.zeeman_parameters`.
* ``when_present`` argument in :py:func:`magnopy.io.load_tb2j` and
  :py:func:`magnopy.io.load_tb2j`.
* ``missing_bonds`` argument in :py:func:`magnopy.io.load_tb2j` and
  :py:func:`magnopy.io.load_tb2j`.
* ``g_factors`` argument in :py:func:`magnopy.io.load_grogu`.
* :py:meth:`magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.restore_missing_parameters`.
* :py:meth:`magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.set_distribution`.
* :py:meth:`magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.purge`.
* :py:func:`magnopy.get_equivalent_parameters`.

Bugfix
------

* Bug in `magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.symmetrize` - new parameters were not saved, meaning
  that symmetrization was not performed correctly. It is now.
* Bug in a ``magnopy`` CLI, that prevented correct error message for unsupported commands.


0.5.1
=====

**Date**: 2 April 2026

Bugfix
------

* Fix a bug in ``magnopy.experimental.plot_spinham``, that was introduced in 0.5.0 and
  prevented the function from working.

0.5.0
=====

.. warning::
    We recommend to update to 0.5.1 if you need to use ``magnopy.experimental.plot_spinham``.
    This function was broken in 0.5.0, but the bug was fixed in 0.5.1.

**Date**: 31 March 2026

New features
------------

* :py:func:`magnopy.is_eigenstate`
* :py:meth:`magnopy.Energy.E_corr`
* :py:meth:`magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.add`
* :py:meth:`magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.remove`
* :py:meth:`magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.symmetrize`
* Optimization of classical energy with quantum correction.

Removed
-------

* ``magnopy.LSWT.G_inv()``.
* ``magnopy.experimental.plot_dispersion()`` (made permanent part of Magnopy: :py:func:`magnopy.io.plot_dispersion`).
* ``magnopy.io.plot_k_resolved()``.
* ``magnopy.io.output_k_resolved()``.
* ``make_sd_image`` argument in CLI scripts.
* ``replace`` argument in the ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.add_*`` methods.
* ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.add_32``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.remove_32``,
  ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.add_421``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.remove_421``,
  ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.add_422``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.remove_422``,
  ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.add_43``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.remove_43`` are removed as
  being incorrect. Use :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add` and
  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.remove` instead.
* ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.add_44``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.remove_44`` are renamed to
  ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.add_45``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.remove_45`` to be
  consistent with the new labeling rules described
  :ref:`here <user-guide_theory-behind_spin-hamiltonian>`.
* ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.p421``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.p422``,
  ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.p43``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.p44`` are renamed to be
  consistent with the new labeling rules described
  :ref:`here <user-guide_theory-behind_spin-hamiltonian>`. The new properties are
  ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.p42``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.p43``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.p44``,
  ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.p45`` respectively.


Deprecated
----------

* ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.add_1``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.remove_1``,
  ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.add_21``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.remove_21``,
  ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.add_22``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.remove_22``,
  ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.add_31``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.remove_31``,
  ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.add_33``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.remove_33``,
  ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.add_41``, ``magnopy.SpinHamiltonian.remove_41``. Use
  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add` and :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.remove` instead.
