.. _release-notes_0.6:

***********
Version 0.6
***********


0.6.0
=====

**Date**: Undefined

New features
------------

* Move tests to the installable package. Introduce :py:func:`.test` and
  :ref:`user-guide_cli_magnopy_test` CLI command.

Bugfix
------

* Rare bug with change of units and non-zero magnetic field: the units of
  ``._zeeman_parameters`` were not converted, which can lead to complex undesired behavior.
  This is now fixed, and the units of ``._zeeman_parameters`` are converted together with
  the units of ``._parameters`` when the units are changed using
  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.units`.


Breaking changes from 0.5
=========================

Deprecated features
-------------------

* Method :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.symmetrize`. Use
  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.set_distribution` with ``strategy="symmetrize"`` instead.
  :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.symmetrize` will be removed in November of 2026.

Removed features
----------------

* :py:meth:`.Convention.summary`. Use ``print(convention)`` or ``str(convention)``
  instead.
* Option ``h`` in :py:meth:`.SpinHamiltonian.add_magnetic_field`. Use ``B`` instead.
* Option ``flat`` in :py:func:`.logo`. As there is only one variation of the logo now,
  this option is not needed. Existing code will still function, but it will raise a
  warning. Please remove the ``flat`` option from your code.
* Option ``info`` in :py:func:`.logo` is removed. The existing code will still function,
  but it will raise a warning. Please remove the ``info`` option from your code, as it is
  ignored now.


Change of behavior
------------------

* Redesign logo of Magnopy to use only ASCII characters. Output of the
  :py:func:`magnopy.logo` has new format.
* Rename option ``comment`` to ``comment_char`` in :py:func:`.logo`. Existing code will
  function the same, but it will raise a warning.
* Option ``line_length`` in :py:func:`.logo` is renamed to ``line_width``. The existing
  code will still function, but it will raise a warning.
